Instead of writing a whole blog post for this I'm going to take though the developer diary I wrote detailing my experience writing the website, as of right now its not 100% finished, but its in a usable state and that's good enough for now.
<br><br>
<h3> Update 1 </h3>
<p>Gunna start updating this space on development progress.<br>
So far I have gotten the bare basics done, some buttons are there (they do not work yet) but the main focus has been on the background, thought it would be cool to have a starry background, of which I found a <a href="https://codepen.io/riley-pearce/pen/OJWPjZM?fbclid=IwAR2HwzINeVhFg7-YQvFDV8Teh-IH6akXO9RY3uMTapRobDt-R9fJ6-GIMkY">cool script online</a> for animated stars made in css.<br>
I took this, removed the animation because I thought it looked tacky, but I then realised that this only covered a space of 1440p. Figured if I was going to update it to at least 4k then I might as well randomly generate the positions of the stars lol.<br>
So I did that with some javascript work, and I got it working over an 8k space, and I used some simple math to keep the star desity the same regardless of screen size. It then turned out that 8k was too big and crashed my friend's browser xD <br>
I've since reduced it to 4k, which will reduce the number of calculations by a factor of 4. I also wanted to offload this onto a server, but github pages only allows static pages, so I'll have to look back into that later when I start to properly implement the "blog" thing which is half the point of the website </p>
<h3> Update 2 </h3>
<p>Okay now its time to start accomplishing the main goal: the blog system. First thigs first I need an area for blog posts to go in, and then create the actual post space. Making the blogspace was kind of annoying due to my lack of css knowledge but I eventually got there, and implemented it so that the space scales with the screen size, I will probably need to update this later to fit different viewports better but for now it works. <br>
Similarly to the blog space, I need the post space to look good in smaller screens too! Regardless the basic idea behind each post is that I need a number of things: a photo/thumbnail, a title, a description, and a date, all of which need to be presented well regardless of screen size. However once again, presentation for all scren sizes will come later.<br>
I'm not too happy with my first rendition to be honest, but I have made decent progress today and have ideas for the future!</p>
<h3> Update 3 </h3>
<p>Completely overhauled the visual design of the blog area to put it more in line with the links at the top of the page, formatted the text, and setup the foundation for actually storing the blog posts. Each blog post is stored in the blog.json file, I read all of these in, encase the variables in the appropriate html, and place that html code into a block, displaying it. I chose to use json for two reasons: a. it means I don't have to mess around with any databases and b. it can store a larger amount of data than I will even remotely come close to using, and if I do then that's a problem for future me :3<br>
Additionally I noticed that last push, the blog space on mobiles was *very* thin due to pushing the sides in by 100px each side, so I replaced the script with something that will push the screen in less on smaller viewports and more on higher viewports, meaning it will look good regardless of screensize, though I am still concerned about the picture and title colliding on smaller viewports, but that's something I'll only find out once I push this update.<br>
My next plan is to create a space for the actual blog to sit in, rather than just the title + description!</p>
<h3> Update 4 </h3>
<p>I started off today by looking into blogging with jekyll, as I'm obviously trying to create a blog, and if github has built in support for it I wasn't going to say no. So I spent about an hour installing it and trying to get it working. It seemed more than possible to do, however there were lots of extra steps which seemed unncecessary.<br>
So I ended up switching back to my initial plan, but with some new ideas, I have made a "posts" folder, and inside of which is where the actual content of the blog will go, rather than in the json file with the rest of the "metadata", and decided that the id in blog.json would relate to the markdown file stored in posts, kinda like a proper database. Splitting these up means that the file size is still low, while I will never encounter any issues with reaching the maximum size of the json (though I think I never would anyway).<br>
I also ultimately settled on making a seperate html page, with a similar base, rather than replaing the blog area with a blog post. This meant two things: <br>a. the only thing on the blog post area is the post itself, and then it is easy to return to the home page <br>b. it makes it easier to pass through the id to retrieve the markdown file on the other end, which I handle though a '#blog-id' in the url, after 'blog.html'. I then read this id, retrieve the file and display it; I'm not sure if this is the most acceptable way to do this, but it more than works.<br>
This is the bulk of my blog done now, only a few more features left to add, and then I can start making actual blog posts!</p>